Dear digital media composers,

I’m going to start with that crucial question, of grades. There are no quizzes in this course, and no tests. Here’s the deal: if you participate actively, and meet some baseline unit criteria that we come up with together, your minimum grade – the minimum, not a guarantee, but a floor – is a B. I’ve got a four-page packet explaining what that means, and how you can go up or down from there, but that’ll be part of the reading for homework.

I’m very excited for this course. But also a little anxious. You see, I’ve spent much of my adult life thinking about how to do things with words – first as a poet, carving language into art; then as a compositionist, teaching academic writing and thinking; and more recently in my role as a digital researcher, where I work with the words and syntax of programming languages... often, to organize and study other people’s words. I’m comfortable with that kind of text, that *alphanumeric* text.

But this course, Composing Digital Media, is here in part to remind us that there are other kinds of texts, and other kinds of writing, than what we do with words. This course takes me out of my comfort zone, pushing me, for example, to re-see the cover of a book or the side of a cereal box as composed of multiple elements, arrayed just so; or to think about the sound effects in a TV show and realize they were added later, chosen to adjust the mood or highlight certain actions. Most importantly, this course pushes all of us not just to notice, but to build: to see if we can recreate an effect we see, or make a different choice, and see what happens.

I’ve arranged the units of the course to build on each other, adding a new layer or wrinkle while carrying forward something of what we’d done previously. In the first unit, we’ll think about the affordances of digital media: that is, what’s made possible by working with bits instead of paper, even when we are still working with words? How do the answers change, or shift, as we move beyond words into aural and visual modes? The vocabulary we build here, at the start of class, will carry through the semester as a set of lenses, shaping what we pay attention to. In this first unit, rather than build a particular object, we’ll get used to using version control software with our writing, which is to say, we’ll keep track of what’s changing from microdraft to microdraft. The tools we’ll use here are Git and GitHub, which were developed for computer programming, but are adaptable to any kind of digital composing. In fact, GitHub is how we'll be hosting nearly all the materials for this course, including our discussion forum and your projects-in-progress. (The occasional file I need to keep private, I’ll post to Box.)

The second unit is focused on *soundwriting*; it adds a layer of simultaneity by allowing several audio tracks to play at once (as opposed to the single linearity of prose text). We'll take a little tour of our sonic neighborhood to practice paying attention to sounds, and the stories those sounds tell, sometimes below the level of conscious awareness. The major project for this unit is a *soundscape narrative* of your own design, whether documentary, fictional, or even science-fictional: I'll ask you to record and rearrange the sounds that surround you, using Audacity as our tool of choice.

Unit three moves into *visual rhetorics*, adding multiple layers of depth to our x-y grid, even as we lose the axis of time. (Apologies to anyone who was especially excited to work on video; I had to sacrifice something in designing this course, and video editing was the one arena in which I didn't know of a good free software platform.) The major project in this unit is a kind of collage, but one which makes an argument through its juxtaposition of images and text. Though some of you may have some experience with Photoshop, I'd like us all to try GIMP this time around: it's nearly as powerful, and because it's free, you'll be able to keep using it easily after graduation.

The fourth unit, and with it the third major project, take us deeper into the computer's stack: we'll be working with *HTML and CSS* to build beautiful websites more or less from scratch. If you've never worked with *markup languages* before, don't worry; I know an amazing tutorial. As for tools, there are many excellent markup-sensitive text editors out there, but if you don't have a preference, I recommend the cross-platform Atom. (Just don't use a word processor like MS Word or even LibreOffice, which would add a lot of junk code behind the scenes.)

Unit five will be a collaborative project, asking you to put it all together. My main thought here is that we can design Twine games: interactive stories that let readers choose among the branching paths of possibilities you create. One risk of group work, often, is that one member will have to sacrifice their own vision out of deference to the team. With branching games, you can explore multiple possibilities, allowing for multiple play-throughs with alternate endings!

That being said, I want to hold open the possibility that you have a vision of what this course can offer you, a vision I haven't yet made room for. If you can convince a team of your classmates to sign on to your proposal for an alternate group project, I'm here to support you in that branching path, as well.

Maybe you noticed that I'm not planning to teach you any "industry standard" software. This is a design choice I made, deliberately, if not without some hesitation. Here's why: even if I could teach you every aspect of a single program, there are many more out there, all of them changing with each new release, each new competitor. Ultimately, there’s no way to learn all there is to know about Composing Digital Media in one semester, or maybe a lifetime. Instead, what I hope the course can teach you, what I hope you’ll learn, are strategies for dealing with that endless churn – a sense of what to look for, and where to look, to figure out the next new tool, and the next, and the next.

So I'll frequently ask you to pause, to notice where your attention is drawn, and to consider what possibilities are present or suggested. I’ll ask you to read and respond to both model texts and arguments; to reflect in writing frequently on the choices you’re making, and why. And, above all, I’ll ask you to keep making choices, and making new things. As composition scholar Doug Hesse put it, you can’t learn to play piano just by reading about the piano; why should we expect any differently about writing, in any form?

I don’t expect us all to become concert-solo ready in fourteen short weeks. But I'm looking forward to rehearsals, just the same.

All best,

Benjamin Miller
(please call me Ben)
