office.md, before:

---
layout: default
bannerimage: "many-moons.jpg"
banneralt: "banner: phases of the moon"
---


## Office Hours
Margaret (map353@pitt) will hold office hours at Hillman Library on Fridays, 2:30-4:30pm. Look for her near Cup & Chaucer.

You can book an appointment with Ben (millerb@pitt) below. Meetings will be in **CL 617-N**: through the glass doors near the elevators, then the right-side hallway and way back. And if none of these times work for you, email me to see if we can arrange something else.

Below the signup calendar, I'm also embedding my busy/free calendar: <em>if it looks like I have no appointments left open, check here:</em> it might just be that I needed a little warning. Actual reserved appointment slots will show up as "busy" during the standard office-hour window.

### Signup calendar
<a id="signups" class="jump" />
(may take a few seconds to load)

<iframe src="https://benmiller314.youcanbook.me/?noframe=true&skipHeaderFooter=true" style="width:100%;height:1000px;border:0px;background-color:transparent;" frameborder="0" allowtransparency="true" onload="keepInView(this);"></iframe>
<script>function keepInView(item) {if((document.documentElement&&document.documentElement.scrollTop)||document.body.scrollTop>item.offsetTop)item.scrollIntoView();}</script>

### Ben's office-hour free/busy calendar
<a id="free-busy" class="jump" />
<iframe src="https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=99f35vnatu0no5u7qh475suvlg%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America/New_York" style="border: 0" width="800" height="600" frameborder="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>

Commit message:

update office hour page for covid-19
and remove outdated reference to TA office hours

office.md, after:

---
layout: default
bannerimage: "many-moons.jpg"
banneralt: "banner: phases of the moon"
---


## Office Hours
You can book an appointment with Ben (millerb@pitt) using the form below. Meetings will be <del>in <strong>CL 617-N</strong>: through the glass doors near the elevators, then the right-side hallway and way back</del> <strong>on Zoom, at <a href="https://pitt.zoom.us/j/4969331343">pitt.zoom.us/j/4969331343</a></strong>. And if none of these times work for you, email me to see if we can arrange something else.

Below the signup calendar, I'm also embedding my busy/free calendar: <em>if it looks like I have no appointments left open, check here:</em> it might just be that I needed a little warning. Actual reserved appointment slots will show up as "busy" during the standard office-hour window.

### Signup calendar
<a id="signups" class="jump" />
(may take a few seconds to load)

<iframe src="https://benmiller314.youcanbook.me/?noframe=true&skipHeaderFooter=true" style="width:100%;height:1000px;border:0px;background-color:transparent;" frameborder="0" allowtransparency="true" onload="keepInView(this);"></iframe>
<script>function keepInView(item) {if((document.documentElement&&document.documentElement.scrollTop)||document.body.scrollTop>item.offsetTop)item.scrollIntoView();}</script>

### Ben's office-hour free/busy calendar
<a id="free-busy" class="jump" />
<iframe src="https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=99f35vnatu0no5u7qh475suvlg%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America/New_York" style="border: 0" width="800" height="600" frameborder="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>
