schedule.md, before:

---
layout: default
---

<img src="{{site.github.baseurl}}/assets/img/many-moons.jpg" class="banner" alt="banner: phases of the moon" />

# Class-by-Class Schedule

Assignments are listed (as HW) on the day they are assigned, and are **due at 9pm the night before**<a href="#ftn1" class="ftnref" id="ftnref1">[1]</a> the following class meeting, unless otherwise specified. You should in general also have access to all your work in class, so we can discuss and/or revise. Possible methods include [GitHub](https://github.com) (recommended), [Box](https://www.technology.pitt.edu/services/cloud-collaboration-box-and-onedrive) (next best thing), Dropbox, or flash drive.

<div class="panel panel-info">
<div class="panel-body">

Follow the links to individual class days for more information, including class notes and more complete homework instructions. NB: This schedule is subject to revision based on our needs.

</div>
</div>

## Contents:

Unit I | [What Makes Digital Media New?](#unit-1) | (weeks 1-2)
Unit II | [Soundscapes and Soundwriting](#unit-2) | (weeks 2-5)
Unit III | [Visual Rhetorics and Argument](#unit-3) | (weeks 5-8)
Unit IV | [Webslinging with Markup](#unit-4) | (weeks 8-11)
Unit V | [Collaborative Composing](#unit-5) | (weeks 11-13)
Unit VI | [Reflection and Revision](#unit-6) | (weeks 13-14)
{: .table }

<h2 id="unit-1">Unit I: What Makes Digital Media New?</h2>
<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-01">Lesson 1, Tuesday 1/7</a> – Introductions</h3>
HW for next time:

* **Read** [syllabus and grading contract](/{{site.course.base_url}}uploads); return with questions or a signed contract.
* **Read** Madeline Sorapure's interactive webtext, ["Five Principles of New Media: or, Playing Lev Manovich"](http://kairos.technorhetoric.net/8.2/binder2.html?coverweb/sorapure/index.htm). After you've finished the Flash version, skim the pdf version.
* **Watch** Michael Wesch, [“Information R/evolution”](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-4CV05HyAbM&amp;feature=youtube_gdata_player)
* **Respond** to the [Tech Comfort Survey](http://bit.ly/cdm2019survey) if you haven't done so in class
* **Join** [GitHub](https://github.com/) if you haven't yet, and **post** an introduction to yourself on <a href="{{site.github.issues_url}}/1">the issue queue</a>.


<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-02">Lesson 2, Thursday 1/9</a> – What Can We Do With Digital?</h3>

HW for next time:

* **Watch** Git and GitHub for Poets, starting at least with
[the Introduction](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BCQHnlnPusY&list=PLRqwX-V7Uu6ZF9C0YMKuns9sLDzK6zoiV) and going as far as your interest and time allow.
* **Download** any software you'll need [to use Git at the command line](https://gist.github.com/derhuerst/1b15ff4652a867391f03), possibly including Homebrew (on Mac) and GitBash (on Windows)
  - If you're feeling intimidated by the command line but want to give it a go, try out this [Command Line Crash Course](https://learnpythonthehardway.org/book/appendixa.html)
* *Optional but highly recommended:* Also **download** the [GitHub Desktop application](https://desktop.github.com), available for MacOS or Windows.


<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-03">Lesson 3, Tuesday 1/14</a> – Building a Repository</h3>
<!-- Be sure to clarify that what you want is a single folder and a single file, so you can track its evolution. Some people always seem to want to create new repos for each draft, which defeats the purpose. -->

For next time:

* **Listen** to example sound narratives
* **Write** a short blog post: what do you notice? what do you wonder? Post this on <a href="{{site.github.issues_url}}">the Issues page</a>.
* **Download** the [Audacity](https://www.audacityteam.org/download/) audio editor, or update to the latest version if you already have it.
* *Optionally* also download the [separate FFmpeg import/export library](https://manual.audacityteam.org/man/faq_installing_the_ffmpeg_import_export_library.html)
<!-- * **Schedule** a one-on-one conference with Ben using https://benmiller314.youcanbook.me -->


<h2 id="unit-2">Unit II: Soundscapes and Soundwriting</h2>

<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-04">Lesson 4, Thursday 1/16</a> – Sound, Space, and Audacity<!-- discuss posts. demo tracks, split, join. Do soundwalk at end iff time allows. (It won't.) :\ --></h3>

For next time:

* **Read** *Writer/Designer* excerpt (scanned file)
* **Read** Stanford’s Fair Use overview _(optional)_;
* **Write** a proposal for your sound narrative, including a prospective asset list (as per *W/D*); post to <a href="{{site.github.issues_url}}">the Issues page</a>.
* **Skim** the audio resources on the site, and read more deeply in anything that seems like it would help you.
* **Begin** recording the sounds you'll need
* **Bring** headphones so you can work in class
<!-- Ben HW: bring in sounds to practice with -->

<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-05">Lesson 5, Tuesday 1/21</a> – Sound Ethics, Sound Studio</h3>
<!-- instead of representative and reprehensible sampling, what if we practice looping?
-->

For next time:

* **Fork** the assignment repository on GitHub if you haven't yet
* **Work** toward your soundscape narrative
* **Push** a soundscape preview, including
  - the layered Audacity file (.aup)
  - one screenshot of your work in progress (.png)
  - one exported playable sound file (.mp3)
  - a brief description of what you've included (.txt or .md)


<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-06">Lesson 6, Thursday 1/23</a> – Sound criteria and stretch goals</h3>


For next time:

* **Work** to bring in a full draft of your soundscape narrative
* **Continue** taking screenshots and posting meaningful commits to GH
* **Push** a full draft, with the same four parts as the preview *plus* a SOURCES.md file crediting your sources and permissions/license to use them
* **Bring** headphones

<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-07">Lesson 7, Tuesday 1/28</a> – Sound Workshop</h3>

For next time:

* **Write** a blog post of possible collaborative / integrative projects for the end of term. <!--What games or branching narratives do the soundscapes put you in mind of? Or w --> What more might you want to explore?
* **Bring** headphones so you can work in class


<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-08">Lesson 8, Thursday 1/30</a> – Sound Studio</h3>

For next time:

* **By 11:59pm on Sunday,** complete – at least for now – your soundscape narrative.
* **By Tuesday's class,** write a prose reflection that incorporates images from your feedback and screenshots of your Audacity project.



<h2 id="unit-3">Unit III: Visual Rhetorics and Argument</h2>
*In this unit, you will make a claim through the juxtaposition of images and text. As with the sound project, the context for your argument is open: you could be making a social commentary, calling for action, constructing a parody, riffing on a pun, explaining a concept, and so on. Whatever you choose, you should consider your audience and what they would find persuasive or interesting, and how you therefore wish to attract and direct their attention.*

<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-09">Lesson 9, Tuesday 2/4</a> – Can You Picture It? Visual Rhetorics and Argument</h3>

For next time:

* **Read** a quick introduction to graphic design principles
* **Find** an example of a rhetorical visual design
* **Write** a blog post about your example, using the analytical language from the reading


<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-10">Lesson 10, Thursday 2/6</a> – Generating Visual Ideas</h3>

For next time:

* **Read** about fonts<!-- https://trydesignlab.com/blog/how-to-choose-the-right-font-for-your-design/ is part 2, but parts 1 and 3 are less essential. Other links within part 2 are EXT for eager readers. -->, optionally playing a font-matching game <!-- http://www.typeconnection.com/ -->
* **Write** a visual rhetoric proposal, including a prospective asset list; post to <a href="{{site.github.issues_url}}">the issue queue</a>

<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-11">Lesson 11, Tuesday 2/11</a> – Visual Unit Studio</h3>

For next time:

* **Compose and push** a visual rhetoric preview

<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-12">Lesson 12, Thursday 2/13</a> – Visual Unit Criteria and Stretch Goals</h3>

For next time:

* **Compose and push** a visual rhetoric draft

<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-13">Lesson 13, Tuesday 2/18</a> – Visual Unit Workshop</h3>

For next time:

* **Write** a blog post with more ideas toward the collaborative / integrative project unit. What further possibilities might you want to explore?
* **Bring** headphones for <a href="https://www.noisli.com/">sonic isolation</a>, if you'd like

<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-14">Lesson 14, Thursday 2/20</a> – Studio</h3>

For next time:

* **By 11:59pm on Sunday,** complete – at least for now – your visual argument.
* **By Tuesday's class,** write a prose reflection that incorporates images from your feedback and screenshots of your GIMP project.
<!-- BEN HW: prepare a ppt on HTML, separation of content and display. See notes in /old-plans/2019fall/lesson-17.md, and also your Seminar in Pedagogy notebook from 2019 spring. -->


<h2 id="unit-4">Unit IV: Webslinging (HTML + CSS markup)</h2>
*In this unit, you will build a multi-page website from scratch, beginning with html and css files.*

<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-15">Lesson 15, Tuesday 2/25</a> – Midterm Reflections and Intro to Markup</h3>
<!--
See lesson outline in old-plans/2019fall/lesson-17.md.
It starts with [CSS Zen Garden](http://www.csszengarden.com/) as seen through the lens of visual emphasis, only later revealing that it's exactly the same content underneath.
-->
For next time:

* **Do** as much of the [Interneting is Hard (but it doesn't have to be)](http://web.archive.org/web/20190213013947/https://internetingishard.com/html-and-css/) tutorial as you can – but **at least parts 1-4** (from "Introduction" through "Hello, CSS")
* **Show your work** by pushing your tutorial code to a repository
* *Optionally* bring headphones for sonic isolation during studio time

<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-16">Lesson 16, Thursday 2/27</a> – Intro to Web Design and Generative Studio</h3>
<!--
Generative loop writing
Offline sketching
Self-paced tutorialing
-->
For next time:

* **Do** more of the [HTML and CSS tutorial](https://internetingishard.com/html-and-css/), including at least The Box Model (5) and CSS Selectors (6), if you haven't yet.
* **Read** more about [how CSS selectors work](https://css-tricks.com/how-css-selectors-work/)
* **Write** a website proposal, including at least one hand-drawn design sketch, types of pages, a prospective asset list, and a link to your repo. Post to the <a href="{{site.github.issues_url}}">issue queue</a>.

<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-17">Lesson 17, Tuesday 3/3</a> – Web Unit Studio / Deployment</h3>

<!--
Make sure everyone has successfully activated GitHub Pages before they leave. Note that the instructions at  https://pages.github.com/ are confusing, because we *don't want to create a whole new repo.* -->

For next time:

* **Do** more of the [tutorial](http://web.archive.org/web/20190213013947/https://internetingishard.com/html-and-css/), including at least Flexbox (8) and Responsive Design (10), if you haven't yet.
* Separately, also **read** about [Grid Layout](https://medium.com/deemaze-software/css-grid-layout-crossed-sections-fca9e956e725) (and optionally the followup post on [responsive grid](https://medium.com/deemaze-software/css-grid-responsive-layouts-and-components-eee1badd5a2f)). <!-- See notes from /old-plans/2019fall/lesson-21.md -->
* **Compose and push** a website preview: a beginning.

<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-18">Lesson 18, Thursday 3/5</a> – Web Unit Criteria and Stretch Goals</h3>
<!--
Developer tools demo
Self-paced tutorialing
Offline sketching
-->
For next time:

* **Finish** the [tutorial](http://web.archive.org/web/20190213013947/https://internetingishard.com/html-and-css/), if you haven't yet – or revisit the sections that are still confusing.
  - Email me with any questions, noting that I can help fastest if you include a screenshot and a link.
* **Save and push as you go!** A full draft of your website project is due by the Thursday after break.
* **View/Play** sample Twine games.


<div class="alert alert-warning">
Spring break is the week of Tu 3/10 and Th 3/12; our only classes will be CSS classes.
</div>

<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-19">Lesson 19, Tuesday 3/17</a> – Studio and Collab Unit Planning</h3>

For next time:

<!-- * **Write** (or respond to) a pitch toward the collaborative project
-->
* **Compose and push** a full draft of your website project

<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-20">Lesson 20, Thursday 3/19</a> – Web Unit Workshop</h3>

For next time:

* **By 11:59pm on Tuesday,** complete – at least for now – your website project.
* **By Thursday's class** write a prose reflection that incorporates images from your feedback and screenshots of your work in progress.

<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-21">Lesson 21, Tuesday 3/24</a> – Studio</h3>

For next time:

* **Our class WILL NOT MEET on Thursday, 3/26: I will be out of town for the Conference on College Composition and Communication.**
* **By 11:59pm,** complete – at least for now – your website project.
* **By Thursday's class,** write a prose reflection that incorporates images from your feedback and screenshots of your work in progress.


<h2 id="unit-5">Unit V: Collaborative Composing</h2>
*The deadlines and assignments here will vary from group to group... unless we all agree to just make interactive stories in [Twine](https://twinery.org), in which case I'll follow a similar deadline pattern to the previous three units.*

<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-22">Lesson 22, Tuesday 3/31</a> – Intro to Collaborative Unit: Charting a Course Forward</h3>

For next time:
* Make shared repository (GH, Box, or Drive) containing a task list and proposed roles for your team members, if you haven't done that already in class.
* Decide together what would constitute a minimum deliverable project, and what series of stretch goals you'll try for beyond that minimum. Push these updated goals to the repo.
<!-- * Twinefolk, skim through [the Twine 2 wiki](http://twinery.org/wiki/twine2:guide).
  - Note as well the possiblity of reverse engineering an existing Twine! Just import the html, and you can see what it's made of. -->

<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-23">Lesson 23, Thursday 4/2</a> – Collaborative Unit Studio</h3>

For next time:
* Push a collaborative project preview (i.e. get something started) to your group repository.
* Continue updating and following your group plan.
* Document your progress as you go! Screenshot, save, commit (or otherwise log changes), push.

<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-24">Lesson 24, Tuesday 4/7</a> – Collaborative Unit Criteria (But Mostly Studio)</h3> <!-- and intro to final portfolio -->

For next time:
* Full-as-possible draft of collaborative project

<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-25">Lesson 25, Thursday 4/9</a> – Collaborative Unit Studio</h3>
<!-- **NO CLASS or a SUB? This is the first day / second night of Passover.** -->

For next time:
* Set group deadlines: are you trying to finish by Sunday? By the last class (next Thursday)?

<h2 id="unit-6">Unit VI: Reflection and Revision</h2>
*Before the semester ends, we'll have time set aside for in-class revisions and reviews, and for drafting a reflective introduction to your final portfolio.*

<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-26">Lesson 26, Tuesday 4/14</a> – Studio; Intro to Final Portfolio</h3>

For next time:
* Finish collaborative project (at least for now), if you haven't yet

* **Read** Paul Ford's "Letter of Recommendation: Bug Fixes" from <em><a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/11/magazine/letter-of-recommendation-bug-fixes-git.html">The New York Times Magazine</a></em> (June 11, 2019).
* Ford writes, "I read the change logs, and I think: <em>Humans can do things.</em>" **Read back** through your own change logs, i.e. the commit histories of your projects; skim through the lesson plans. What things have you done this semester?
* **Choose** something from the course that you want to remember beyond this semester: a thing you or someone else made, or said, that struck a chord with you. We'll briefly share these next time.


<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-27">Lesson 27, Thursday, 4/16</a> – Last day of class! Parting Gifts; Project Presentations; Play and Prep and Q&A</h3>

For next time:
* Work to complete your final portfolio

&nbsp;

&nbsp;
<div class="alert alert-success">
<em>Final portfolios will be due by the end of the final exam slot, which will be announced soon.</em>
</div>

Commit message:

improvements to default layout
including: move banner to be part of the nav_top

schedule.md, after:

---
layout: default
featuredimage: "many-moons.jpg"
featuredalt: "banner: phases of the moon"
---


# Class-by-Class Schedule

Assignments are listed (as HW) on the day they are assigned, and are **due at 9pm the night before**<a href="#ftn1" class="ftnref" id="ftnref1">[1]</a> the following class meeting, unless otherwise specified. You should in general also have access to all your work in class, so we can discuss and/or revise. Possible methods include [GitHub](https://github.com) (recommended), [Box](https://www.technology.pitt.edu/services/cloud-collaboration-box-and-onedrive) (next best thing), Dropbox, or flash drive.

<div class="panel panel-info">
<div class="panel-body">

Follow the links to individual class days for more information, including class notes and more complete homework instructions. NB: This schedule is subject to revision based on our needs.

</div>
</div>

## Contents:

Unit I | [What Makes Digital Media New?](#unit-1) | (weeks 1-2)
Unit II | [Soundscapes and Soundwriting](#unit-2) | (weeks 2-5)
Unit III | [Visual Rhetorics and Argument](#unit-3) | (weeks 5-8)
Unit IV | [Webslinging with Markup](#unit-4) | (weeks 8-11)
Unit V | [Collaborative Composing](#unit-5) | (weeks 11-13)
Unit VI | [Reflection and Revision](#unit-6) | (weeks 13-14)
{: .table }

<h2 id="unit-1">Unit I: What Makes Digital Media New?</h2>
<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-01">Lesson 1, Tuesday 1/7</a> – Introductions</h3>
HW for next time:

* **Read** [syllabus and grading contract](/{{site.course.base_url}}uploads); return with questions or a signed contract.
* **Read** Madeline Sorapure's interactive webtext, ["Five Principles of New Media: or, Playing Lev Manovich"](http://kairos.technorhetoric.net/8.2/binder2.html?coverweb/sorapure/index.htm). After you've finished the Flash version, skim the pdf version.
* **Watch** Michael Wesch, [“Information R/evolution”](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-4CV05HyAbM&amp;feature=youtube_gdata_player)
* **Respond** to the [Tech Comfort Survey](http://bit.ly/cdm2019survey) if you haven't done so in class
* **Join** [GitHub](https://github.com/) if you haven't yet, and **post** an introduction to yourself on <a href="{{site.github.issues_url}}/1">the issue queue</a>.


<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-02">Lesson 2, Thursday 1/9</a> – What Can We Do With Digital?</h3>

HW for next time:

* **Watch** Git and GitHub for Poets, starting at least with
[the Introduction](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BCQHnlnPusY&list=PLRqwX-V7Uu6ZF9C0YMKuns9sLDzK6zoiV) and going as far as your interest and time allow.
* **Download** any software you'll need [to use Git at the command line](https://gist.github.com/derhuerst/1b15ff4652a867391f03), possibly including Homebrew (on Mac) and GitBash (on Windows)
  - If you're feeling intimidated by the command line but want to give it a go, try out this [Command Line Crash Course](https://learnpythonthehardway.org/book/appendixa.html)
* *Optional but highly recommended:* Also **download** the [GitHub Desktop application](https://desktop.github.com), available for MacOS or Windows.


<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-03">Lesson 3, Tuesday 1/14</a> – Building a Repository</h3>
<!-- Be sure to clarify that what you want is a single folder and a single file, so you can track its evolution. Some people always seem to want to create new repos for each draft, which defeats the purpose. -->

For next time:

* **Listen** to example sound narratives
* **Write** a short blog post: what do you notice? what do you wonder? Post this on <a href="{{site.github.issues_url}}">the Issues page</a>.
* **Download** the [Audacity](https://www.audacityteam.org/download/) audio editor, or update to the latest version if you already have it.
* *Optionally* also download the [separate FFmpeg import/export library](https://manual.audacityteam.org/man/faq_installing_the_ffmpeg_import_export_library.html)
<!-- * **Schedule** a one-on-one conference with Ben using https://benmiller314.youcanbook.me -->


<h2 id="unit-2">Unit II: Soundscapes and Soundwriting</h2>

<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-04">Lesson 4, Thursday 1/16</a> – Sound, Space, and Audacity<!-- discuss posts. demo tracks, split, join. Do soundwalk at end iff time allows. (It won't.) :\ --></h3>

For next time:

* **Read** *Writer/Designer* excerpt (scanned file)
* **Read** Stanford’s Fair Use overview _(optional)_;
* **Write** a proposal for your sound narrative, including a prospective asset list (as per *W/D*); post to <a href="{{site.github.issues_url}}">the Issues page</a>.
* **Skim** the audio resources on the site, and read more deeply in anything that seems like it would help you.
* **Begin** recording the sounds you'll need
* **Bring** headphones so you can work in class
<!-- Ben HW: bring in sounds to practice with -->

<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-05">Lesson 5, Tuesday 1/21</a> – Sound Ethics, Sound Studio</h3>
<!-- instead of representative and reprehensible sampling, what if we practice looping?
-->

For next time:

* **Fork** the assignment repository on GitHub if you haven't yet
* **Work** toward your soundscape narrative
* **Push** a soundscape preview, including
  - the layered Audacity file (.aup)
  - one screenshot of your work in progress (.png)
  - one exported playable sound file (.mp3)
  - a brief description of what you've included (.txt or .md)


<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-06">Lesson 6, Thursday 1/23</a> – Sound criteria and stretch goals</h3>


For next time:

* **Work** to bring in a full draft of your soundscape narrative
* **Continue** taking screenshots and posting meaningful commits to GH
* **Push** a full draft, with the same four parts as the preview *plus* a SOURCES.md file crediting your sources and permissions/license to use them
* **Bring** headphones

<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-07">Lesson 7, Tuesday 1/28</a> – Sound Workshop</h3>

For next time:

* **Write** a blog post of possible collaborative / integrative projects for the end of term. <!--What games or branching narratives do the soundscapes put you in mind of? Or w --> What more might you want to explore?
* **Bring** headphones so you can work in class


<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-08">Lesson 8, Thursday 1/30</a> – Sound Studio</h3>

For next time:

* **By 11:59pm on Sunday,** complete – at least for now – your soundscape narrative.
* **By Tuesday's class,** write a prose reflection that incorporates images from your feedback and screenshots of your Audacity project.



<h2 id="unit-3">Unit III: Visual Rhetorics and Argument</h2>
*In this unit, you will make a claim through the juxtaposition of images and text. As with the sound project, the context for your argument is open: you could be making a social commentary, calling for action, constructing a parody, riffing on a pun, explaining a concept, and so on. Whatever you choose, you should consider your audience and what they would find persuasive or interesting, and how you therefore wish to attract and direct their attention.*

<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-09">Lesson 9, Tuesday 2/4</a> – Can You Picture It? Visual Rhetorics and Argument</h3>

For next time:

* **Read** a quick introduction to graphic design principles
* **Find** an example of a rhetorical visual design
* **Write** a blog post about your example, using the analytical language from the reading


<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-10">Lesson 10, Thursday 2/6</a> – Generating Visual Ideas</h3>

For next time:

* **Read** about fonts<!-- https://trydesignlab.com/blog/how-to-choose-the-right-font-for-your-design/ is part 2, but parts 1 and 3 are less essential. Other links within part 2 are EXT for eager readers. -->, optionally playing a font-matching game <!-- http://www.typeconnection.com/ -->
* **Write** a visual rhetoric proposal, including a prospective asset list; post to <a href="{{site.github.issues_url}}">the issue queue</a>

<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-11">Lesson 11, Tuesday 2/11</a> – Visual Unit Studio</h3>

For next time:

* **Compose and push** a visual rhetoric preview

<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-12">Lesson 12, Thursday 2/13</a> – Visual Unit Criteria and Stretch Goals</h3>

For next time:

* **Compose and push** a visual rhetoric draft

<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-13">Lesson 13, Tuesday 2/18</a> – Visual Unit Workshop</h3>

For next time:

* **Write** a blog post with more ideas toward the collaborative / integrative project unit. What further possibilities might you want to explore?
* **Bring** headphones for <a href="https://www.noisli.com/">sonic isolation</a>, if you'd like

<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-14">Lesson 14, Thursday 2/20</a> – Studio</h3>

For next time:

* **By 11:59pm on Sunday,** complete – at least for now – your visual argument.
* **By Tuesday's class,** write a prose reflection that incorporates images from your feedback and screenshots of your GIMP project.
<!-- BEN HW: prepare a ppt on HTML, separation of content and display. See notes in /old-plans/2019fall/lesson-17.md, and also your Seminar in Pedagogy notebook from 2019 spring. -->


<h2 id="unit-4">Unit IV: Webslinging (HTML + CSS markup)</h2>
*In this unit, you will build a multi-page website from scratch, beginning with html and css files.*

<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-15">Lesson 15, Tuesday 2/25</a> – Midterm Reflections and Intro to Markup</h3>
<!--
See lesson outline in old-plans/2019fall/lesson-17.md.
It starts with [CSS Zen Garden](http://www.csszengarden.com/) as seen through the lens of visual emphasis, only later revealing that it's exactly the same content underneath.
-->
For next time:

* **Do** as much of the [Interneting is Hard (but it doesn't have to be)](http://web.archive.org/web/20190213013947/https://internetingishard.com/html-and-css/) tutorial as you can – but **at least parts 1-4** (from "Introduction" through "Hello, CSS")
* **Show your work** by pushing your tutorial code to a repository
* *Optionally* bring headphones for sonic isolation during studio time

<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-16">Lesson 16, Thursday 2/27</a> – Intro to Web Design and Generative Studio</h3>
<!--
Generative loop writing
Offline sketching
Self-paced tutorialing
-->
For next time:

* **Do** more of the [HTML and CSS tutorial](https://internetingishard.com/html-and-css/), including at least The Box Model (5) and CSS Selectors (6), if you haven't yet.
* **Read** more about [how CSS selectors work](https://css-tricks.com/how-css-selectors-work/)
* **Write** a website proposal, including at least one hand-drawn design sketch, types of pages, a prospective asset list, and a link to your repo. Post to the <a href="{{site.github.issues_url}}">issue queue</a>.

<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-17">Lesson 17, Tuesday 3/3</a> – Web Unit Studio / Deployment</h3>

<!--
Make sure everyone has successfully activated GitHub Pages before they leave. Note that the instructions at  https://pages.github.com/ are confusing, because we *don't want to create a whole new repo.* -->

For next time:

* **Do** more of the [tutorial](http://web.archive.org/web/20190213013947/https://internetingishard.com/html-and-css/), including at least Flexbox (8) and Responsive Design (10), if you haven't yet.
* Separately, also **read** about [Grid Layout](https://medium.com/deemaze-software/css-grid-layout-crossed-sections-fca9e956e725) (and optionally the followup post on [responsive grid](https://medium.com/deemaze-software/css-grid-responsive-layouts-and-components-eee1badd5a2f)). <!-- See notes from /old-plans/2019fall/lesson-21.md -->
* **Compose and push** a website preview: a beginning.

<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-18">Lesson 18, Thursday 3/5</a> – Web Unit Criteria and Stretch Goals</h3>
<!--
Developer tools demo
Self-paced tutorialing
Offline sketching
-->
For next time:

* **Finish** the [tutorial](http://web.archive.org/web/20190213013947/https://internetingishard.com/html-and-css/), if you haven't yet – or revisit the sections that are still confusing.
  - Email me with any questions, noting that I can help fastest if you include a screenshot and a link.
* **Save and push as you go!** A full draft of your website project is due by the Thursday after break.
* **View/Play** sample Twine games.


<div class="alert alert-warning">
Spring break is the week of Tu 3/10 and Th 3/12; our only classes will be CSS classes.
</div>

<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-19">Lesson 19, Tuesday 3/17</a> – Studio and Collab Unit Planning</h3>

For next time:

<!-- * **Write** (or respond to) a pitch toward the collaborative project
-->
* **Compose and push** a full draft of your website project

<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-20">Lesson 20, Thursday 3/19</a> – Web Unit Workshop</h3>

For next time:

* **By 11:59pm on Tuesday,** complete – at least for now – your website project.
* **By Thursday's class** write a prose reflection that incorporates images from your feedback and screenshots of your work in progress.

<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-21">Lesson 21, Tuesday 3/24</a> – Studio</h3>

For next time:

* **Our class WILL NOT MEET on Thursday, 3/26: I will be out of town for the Conference on College Composition and Communication.**
* **By 11:59pm,** complete – at least for now – your website project.
* **By Thursday's class,** write a prose reflection that incorporates images from your feedback and screenshots of your work in progress.


<h2 id="unit-5">Unit V: Collaborative Composing</h2>
*The deadlines and assignments here will vary from group to group... unless we all agree to just make interactive stories in [Twine](https://twinery.org), in which case I'll follow a similar deadline pattern to the previous three units.*

<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-22">Lesson 22, Tuesday 3/31</a> – Intro to Collaborative Unit: Charting a Course Forward</h3>

For next time:
* Make shared repository (GH, Box, or Drive) containing a task list and proposed roles for your team members, if you haven't done that already in class.
* Decide together what would constitute a minimum deliverable project, and what series of stretch goals you'll try for beyond that minimum. Push these updated goals to the repo.
<!-- * Twinefolk, skim through [the Twine 2 wiki](http://twinery.org/wiki/twine2:guide).
  - Note as well the possiblity of reverse engineering an existing Twine! Just import the html, and you can see what it's made of. -->

<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-23">Lesson 23, Thursday 4/2</a> – Collaborative Unit Studio</h3>

For next time:
* Push a collaborative project preview (i.e. get something started) to your group repository.
* Continue updating and following your group plan.
* Document your progress as you go! Screenshot, save, commit (or otherwise log changes), push.

<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-24">Lesson 24, Tuesday 4/7</a> – Collaborative Unit Criteria (But Mostly Studio)</h3> <!-- and intro to final portfolio -->

For next time:
* Full-as-possible draft of collaborative project

<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-25">Lesson 25, Thursday 4/9</a> – Collaborative Unit Studio</h3>
<!-- **NO CLASS or a SUB? This is the first day / second night of Passover.** -->

For next time:
* Set group deadlines: are you trying to finish by Sunday? By the last class (next Thursday)?

<h2 id="unit-6">Unit VI: Reflection and Revision</h2>
*Before the semester ends, we'll have time set aside for in-class revisions and reviews, and for drafting a reflective introduction to your final portfolio.*

<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-26">Lesson 26, Tuesday 4/14</a> – Studio; Intro to Final Portfolio</h3>

For next time:
* Finish collaborative project (at least for now), if you haven't yet

* **Read** Paul Ford's "Letter of Recommendation: Bug Fixes" from <em><a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/11/magazine/letter-of-recommendation-bug-fixes-git.html">The New York Times Magazine</a></em> (June 11, 2019).
* Ford writes, "I read the change logs, and I think: <em>Humans can do things.</em>" **Read back** through your own change logs, i.e. the commit histories of your projects; skim through the lesson plans. What things have you done this semester?
* **Choose** something from the course that you want to remember beyond this semester: a thing you or someone else made, or said, that struck a chord with you. We'll briefly share these next time.


<h3><a href="{{site.github.baseurl}}/plans/lesson-27">Lesson 27, Thursday, 4/16</a> – Last day of class! Parting Gifts; Project Presentations; Play and Prep and Q&A</h3>

For next time:
* Work to complete your final portfolio

&nbsp;

&nbsp;
<div class="alert alert-success">
<em>Final portfolios will be due by the end of the final exam slot, which will be announced soon.</em>
</div>
