plans/lesson-22.md, before:


# Introduction to Finality

<div class="footnote-block">with a hat tip to <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Introduction_to_Finality">Community</a></div>

**Work to have done**: Submit final-for-now website, with source files, and [reflection]({{site.github.issues_url}})

**Plan for the Day**:

1. Breathe; reflect. (5-10 min)<!-- metaphors for learning -->
2. Consolidation Unit goals, and what that might look like (10-15 min)
3. Generative Writing (5-10 min) <!-- and self-assessment -->
4. Work on a Project Proposal


## 1. Breathe; reflect. (5-10 min)

Congratulations on reaching the end of the web unit! You've just turned in a reflection on your individual website project; now, take a few minutes to write a broader reflection (as we've done before) about the course as a whole.

One goal I have, overall, is to help you feel more empowered to learn new digital skills _across contexts_, not just for particular applications or tools. One way to think about that is through **metaphor** (or, more specifically, simile).

<div class="alert alert-success">
   <ol>
      <li><strong>What was it <em>like</em> to compose a website?</strong> To what other activities might you compare it? <ul><li>For example, was it like getting butterflies to fly in formation? (That metaphor is Betsy Sargent's, I can't take credit for it.) Was it like writing on loose paper with a pen that's chained in a dark room? Like singing and humming at the same time?</li></ul></li> Let your mind wander for a minute, and see what comes to mind when you start off thinking about the <em>process</em> of working with html, css, etc.</li>
      <li>Would you use the same metaphor for the other kinds of digital composing you've used this semester? If not, what other metaphor would you propose?</li>
      <li><em>Within the metaphors</em> you've come up with, what strategies would help you continue improving? What strategies might that suggest in real life, i.e. outside of the metaphor?</li>
   </ol>

Set a timer, and take 3-5 minutes to think in writing. I won't collect this, but I will suggest that you return to these when writing your end-of-semester reflection, and I will ask for some volunteers to share in a few minutes.
</div>

EXT: What personal skillsets do you feel like you now possess, that you might offer to a team of digital media composers?


## 2. Consolidation Unit Goals (5-10 min)

As I said in my email and on the updated [schedule](../schedule), I am with heavy head dropping my final unit goal of helping you manage a complex project involving multiple team members. Therefore, instead of spending three weeks on _collaborative composing_, we'll spend the remaining two weeks on _consolidation_.

In this unit, you'll build on top of what you've already made and learned: **a revision, extension, or combination of the modes and media you used in earlier units.**

The unit goals, then, are:
<!-- 1. to practice managing a complex project involving multiple team members -->
1. to integrate and consolidate the skills you've practiced across the semester
2. to assess your own skills as a digital media composer, to find ways _you_ in particular might best contribute to a collaborative digital project (perhaps in the future)

<div class="alert alert-info">
Note that while I'm not requiring you to work in groups, nor am I requiring you to work solo: If you have a team that can collaborate effectively in online formats (via Zoom, Discord, Slack, what-have-you), you're welcome to go for it!

Let me know if you're thinking of going this route, so I can give advice re: team roles and workflows for shared repositories.
</div>


<!-- At this point, here's what I wanted:
## 3. Brainstorming / self-assessment (5-10 min)

First, I'd like you to think about goal two, above. Consider the following roles:

1. project manager (organize schedule, keep everyone on task)
3. visual designer (plan layout and execute visual hierarchy)
4. experience designer (plan interactivity, spatiality, sequence)
2. programmer (get into the weeds of code)
5. researcher (find materials and assets, quickly grasp tutorials)
6. copy writer (produce public-ready prose)

<div class="alert alert-success">
Take some notes:
<ul><li>Where do you see your strengths, within these categories?</li>
<li>Where are you on the cusp of leveling up?</li>
<li>Where would you like more help from a teammate?</li>
</ul>

EXT: Do you have a specific project idea you'd like to explore? Jot down some notes now.
</div>

## 4. Marketplace of ideas (forming groups)
I don't have a particular strategy for group formation today, other than to let you sort it out!

That said, you should have between 2 and 4 people per group.

You don't have to have every role above represented, but it would probably be good to diversify your skillset where possible.


5. Group proposal in writing, with goals and roles
Download the file ["group-proposal.md"](https://github.com/benmiller314/cdm2019fall/blob/gh-pages/uploads/group-proposal.md): from that link, you can right-click the "Raw" button and Save Link As.

Then, working as a group, follow the instructions in the file.

You may also want to look at [this excerpt from _Writer/Designer_](https://pitt.box.com/s/96l347yyrx2e69lkx635bl0jac4beaye), on ways to facilitate group collaboration.


THANKS FOR NOTHING, COVID-19!

-->

### What might that look like?

On the most straightforward level, this could literally be a **revision of one of your existing projects.** Were there stretch goals or aspirations that you think you didn't quite figure out how to achieve? Did you write in a reflection about what you might do with more time? Well, now you have a little more time!

Another option would be to make a **_second_ project in the vein of one you've already done**: another sound-editing project, another visual argument, another website. You'll have less time than you did originally, but you should also be higher on the learning curve. In this same vein, you could try an alternate program for the same genres: e.g. AdobeSuite parallels like Audition (for Audacity) and Photoshop (for GIMP).  See what happens when you dive in again, and reflect on the differences!

A third option is to build a **new project that builds on what you know to make something different**: e.g. you could try or next-level tools like Illustrator for vector graphics (the opensource parallel is Inkscape) or Ableton for music mixing (there's a free trial); or try for one of the ideas you'd already [proposed on the Issue Queue]({{site.github.issues_url}}?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22paying+forward%22); or – and this is what I was originally going to suggest for anyone not sure what to make or do here – you could make a Twine.


### What is [Twine](http://twinery.org)?

<figure>
<a href="http://twinery.org/" title="link to Twine homepage"><img src="../assets/img/twine--official-description.png" alt="Twine is 'an open-source tool for telling interactive, nonlinear stories,' to quote their website. Follow link for complete text." /></a>
</figure>

A choose-your-own-adventure story is one way to think about it. But it's not always adventure, not always a story... and not even always choice.

Here are some examples, grouped more or less in pairs of shorter (odds) and longer (evens). **Open and play through at least one of each, or through the beginning few scenes, until you get the flavor.** Note that the first four are more or less professional-level, while the last two were made by students at Pitt.

1. [The Tiniest Room](https://erik108.itch.io/the-tiniest-room) - a minimalist escape room
2. [The Griffin and the Minor Canon](https://cmg.itch.io/the-griffin-and-the-minor-canon) - more poetic (it's actually an adaptation of a [short story](https://www.classicshorts.com/stories/griffin.html) from 1885). Hint: if you're stuck, visit the stone ledge a few times. The view isn't always the same.
3. [Queers in Love at the End of the World](https://w.itch.io/end-of-the-world) - what will you do with the short time you have left?
4. [the uncle who works for nintendo](https://ztul.itch.io/the-uncle-who-works-for-nintendo) – a horror game; see trigger warning link on home screen.
5. [Conquering Cathy](http://philome.la/mtyrhetoric/conquering-cathy/play) - "A trial of fortitude & vitality at the University of Pittsburgh"
6. [Remnants](https://philome.la/lissamay/remnants-by-kelly-sung/play/index.html) – Your mother is crying next to your bed. Why can't you touch her hand?


<div class="alert alert-white">
I'm working on getting a screencast recorded of an intro to the Twine interface, for the curious, demonstrating how easy it is to get started -- and some idea of how deep the rabbit-hole goes if you want to get into it. I'll email and post a link here when it's ready.

In the meantime, if this sounds intriguing, I encourage you to look at the <a href="../resources#twine--interactive-narrative">relevant section of our course resources page</a> for links to the Twine wiki (your basic starting point) and some good video tutorials (listed as a "slightly more advanced intro").
<!--
* Screencast: introduce the genre by showing the opening sequences of some (polished/published) games
  - When you first download the Twine app, it may tell you the file "can't be opened because it's from an unknown developer." Not to worry: just right-click the executable, and choose Open from the context menu. Instead of rejecting the program outright, it'll just give you warning but still let you Open Anyway.
  * Show how you can import an existing game and see how it works
  * Walk through the basic features, show how easy it is to do basics
  * Show the Harlowe wiki and the cookbook
  * Link to the Harlowe wiki and the cookbok
  * Link to some additional student examples
-->
</div>


## Generative writing
Now that you have a sense of what's possible, in general, it's time for you to write your way into a sense of what's drawing you, in particular. *(This exercise adapted from Sondra Perl's [Guidelines for Composing](http://bit.ly/perlfeltsense))*  <!-- Record this in Audacity?? -->

<div class="alert alert-info">

<figure>
    <figcaption>For an audio version of the text-based writing prompts that follow, use this media player:</figcaption>
    <audio
        controls
        src="../assets/sound/ben-reads-perl-guidelines--final-unit.mp3">
            Your browser does not support the
            <code>audio</code> element.
    </audio>
</figure>

</div>

Take a breath. Close your eyes. Put down your pen, or take your hands off your keyboard. Find a way to be present to yourself, wherever you are, and know that **whatever you write for next set of questions will not be collected:** it's for you alone.

1. Start by making a list: What's on my mind? what have I been meaning to do lately? When you feel yourself answering, begin to write.

2. Set that list aside – it'll wait for you until you've finished here – and ask yourself again: What skills have I been building in this class? What do I feel I've leveled up on, or that I'm on the verge of leveling up on? What am I on the edge of accomplishing? As before, just make a list, like an inventory: don't delve too much into any one item.

3. Now ask yourself: Is there anything I've been trying to do in this class, but haven't yet done? Any aspirational goals I meant to achieve, but just ran out of time for? Did any of the ideas above sound both fun and achievable, a way to make these last couple of weeks more celebratory than stressful? Again, take a quick survey; you'll have time later to expand.

4. Take one more moment to consider: Is there anything I'm forgetting, that could go on this list? If you came to this exercise with a project already in mind, make sure to add that to your list.

Take a moment now to read back over your lists. Is there something that stands out, that says, _me, pick me_? Choose one thing to work with, at least for today, and mark it in some way. Then copy it into a clean page.

With that chosen subject, write again:

5. What terms or images come to mind when you think of this subject? ... Think about categories of words: actions vs things. Descriptors (adjectives).
6. Is there anything you're forgetting to add to your list? A line from a song? A color?
7. Who else might be interested in this? Who, that is, could be your audience?

See if you can summon up the whole of this idea, like it's right here in the room with you. Where does it live? Is it above you? Inside you? In the palm of your hand? Just sit with your idea for a moment, feeling where you connect to it.

## And now, plan.
Your homework for the weekend is to post a proposal / plan for your consolidation unit.

**Take 10-15 minutes now to get started on that process**, using whatever medium feels appropriate to your project: do you want to sketch a drawing on paper? Record yourself talking, either [on a phone](https://thewirecutter.com/reviews/the-best-voice-recorder/#the-best-smartphone-apps-for-occasional-recording) or in Audacity? Type it out? Go with what makes sense.

If you can, work your way toward developing a task list for your project: What are the parts of the project? What assets will you need to find? What do you already know how to do, and what will you need to learn? Would some tasks be easier to outsource or split with a partner, and if so, who might you ask to partner with you?

I'll be in the usual Zoom during our scheduled class time, so feel free to meet me there – or to post a new issue to the Issue Queue.

EXT: If you have time now, you can get started on implementing your plan! We'll have mostly studio time for the next three classes – and, if possible, to gather some shared baseline goals that work for all the projects.


# Homework for next time

* Make a new<span class="ftnref">1</span> repository (GH, Box, or Drive) containing:
  - a brief overview of your project goals
  - a task list for your project
  - proposed roles for your team members, if you have a team of more than one
* Post your project proposal, with a link to the repository, on the [Issue Queue]({{site.github.issues_url}}).
* Decide (together, if working on a team) what would constitute a minimum deliverable project, and what series of stretch goals you'll try for beyond that minimum. **Push these updated goals to your repo.**


<span class="footnote-block"><sup>1</sup> If you're updating an existing project, do this in a new branch of the old repository, instead.</span>

Commit message:

add link to Twine screencast

plans/lesson-22.md, after:


# Introduction to Finality

<div class="footnote-block">with a hat tip to <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Introduction_to_Finality">Community</a></div>

**Work to have done**: Submit final-for-now website, with source files, and [reflection]({{site.github.issues_url}})

**Plan for the Day**:

1. Breathe; reflect. (5-10 min)<!-- metaphors for learning -->
2. Consolidation Unit goals, and what that might look like (10-15 min)
3. Generative Writing (5-10 min) <!-- and self-assessment -->
4. Work on a Project Proposal


## 1. Breathe; reflect. (5-10 min)

Congratulations on reaching the end of the web unit! You've just turned in a reflection on your individual website project; now, take a few minutes to write a broader reflection (as we've done before) about the course as a whole.

One goal I have, overall, is to help you feel more empowered to learn new digital skills _across contexts_, not just for particular applications or tools. One way to think about that is through **metaphor** (or, more specifically, simile).

<div class="alert alert-success">
   <ol>
      <li><strong>What was it <em>like</em> to compose a website?</strong> To what other activities might you compare it? <ul><li>For example, was it like getting butterflies to fly in formation? (That metaphor is Betsy Sargent's, I can't take credit for it.) Was it like writing on loose paper with a pen that's chained in a dark room? Like singing and humming at the same time?</li></ul></li> Let your mind wander for a minute, and see what comes to mind when you start off thinking about the <em>process</em> of working with html, css, etc.</li>
      <li>Would you use the same metaphor for the other kinds of digital composing you've used this semester? If not, what other metaphor would you propose?</li>
      <li><em>Within the metaphors</em> you've come up with, what strategies would help you continue improving? What strategies might that suggest in real life, i.e. outside of the metaphor?</li>
   </ol>

Set a timer, and take 3-5 minutes to think in writing. I won't collect this, but I will suggest that you return to these when writing your end-of-semester reflection, and I will ask for some volunteers to share in a few minutes.
</div>

EXT: What personal skillsets do you feel like you now possess, that you might offer to a team of digital media composers?


## 2. Consolidation Unit Goals (5-10 min)

As I said in my email and on the updated [schedule](../schedule), I am with heavy head dropping my final unit goal of helping you manage a complex project involving multiple team members. Therefore, instead of spending three weeks on _collaborative composing_, we'll spend the remaining two weeks on _consolidation_.

In this unit, you'll build on top of what you've already made and learned: **a revision, extension, or combination of the modes and media you used in earlier units.**

The unit goals, then, are:
<!-- 1. to practice managing a complex project involving multiple team members -->
1. to integrate and consolidate the skills you've practiced across the semester
2. to assess your own skills as a digital media composer, to find ways _you_ in particular might best contribute to a collaborative digital project (perhaps in the future)

<div class="alert alert-info">
Note that while I'm not requiring you to work in groups, nor am I requiring you to work solo: If you have a team that can collaborate effectively in online formats (via Zoom, Discord, Slack, what-have-you), you're welcome to go for it!

Let me know if you're thinking of going this route, so I can give advice re: team roles and workflows for shared repositories.
</div>


<!-- At this point, here's what I wanted:
## 3. Brainstorming / self-assessment (5-10 min)

First, I'd like you to think about goal two, above. Consider the following roles:

1. project manager (organize schedule, keep everyone on task)
3. visual designer (plan layout and execute visual hierarchy)
4. experience designer (plan interactivity, spatiality, sequence)
2. programmer (get into the weeds of code)
5. researcher (find materials and assets, quickly grasp tutorials)
6. copy writer (produce public-ready prose)

<div class="alert alert-success">
Take some notes:
<ul><li>Where do you see your strengths, within these categories?</li>
<li>Where are you on the cusp of leveling up?</li>
<li>Where would you like more help from a teammate?</li>
</ul>

EXT: Do you have a specific project idea you'd like to explore? Jot down some notes now.
</div>

## 4. Marketplace of ideas (forming groups)
I don't have a particular strategy for group formation today, other than to let you sort it out!

That said, you should have between 2 and 4 people per group.

You don't have to have every role above represented, but it would probably be good to diversify your skillset where possible.


5. Group proposal in writing, with goals and roles
Download the file ["group-proposal.md"](https://github.com/benmiller314/cdm2019fall/blob/gh-pages/uploads/group-proposal.md): from that link, you can right-click the "Raw" button and Save Link As.

Then, working as a group, follow the instructions in the file.

You may also want to look at [this excerpt from _Writer/Designer_](https://pitt.box.com/s/96l347yyrx2e69lkx635bl0jac4beaye), on ways to facilitate group collaboration.


THANKS FOR NOTHING, COVID-19!

-->

### What might that look like?

On the most straightforward level, this could literally be a **revision of one of your existing projects.** Were there stretch goals or aspirations that you think you didn't quite figure out how to achieve? Did you write in a reflection about what you might do with more time? Well, now you have a little more time!

Another option would be to make a **_second_ project in the vein of one you've already done**: another sound-editing project, another visual argument, another website. You'll have less time than you did originally, but you should also be higher on the learning curve. In this same vein, you could try an alternate program for the same genres: e.g. AdobeSuite parallels like Audition (for Audacity) and Photoshop (for GIMP).  See what happens when you dive in again, and reflect on the differences!

A third option is to build a **new project that builds on what you know to make something different**: e.g. you could try or next-level tools like Illustrator for vector graphics (the opensource parallel is Inkscape) or Ableton for music mixing (there's a free trial); or try for one of the ideas you'd already [proposed on the Issue Queue]({{site.github.issues_url}}?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22paying+forward%22); or – and this is what I was originally going to suggest for anyone not sure what to make or do here – you could make a Twine.


### What is [Twine](http://twinery.org)?

<figure>
<a href="http://twinery.org/" title="link to Twine homepage"><img src="../assets/img/twine--official-description.png" alt="Twine is 'an open-source tool for telling interactive, nonlinear stories,' to quote their website. Follow link for complete text." /></a>
</figure>

A choose-your-own-adventure story is one way to think about it. But it's not always adventure, not always a story... and not even always choice.

Here are some examples, grouped more or less in pairs of shorter (odds) and longer (evens). **Open and play through at least one of each, or through the beginning few scenes, until you get the flavor.** Note that the first four are more or less professional-level, while the last two were made by students at Pitt.

1. [The Tiniest Room](https://erik108.itch.io/the-tiniest-room) - a minimalist escape room
2. [The Griffin and the Minor Canon](https://cmg.itch.io/the-griffin-and-the-minor-canon) - more poetic (it's actually an adaptation of a [short story](https://www.classicshorts.com/stories/griffin.html) from 1885). Hint: if you're stuck, visit the stone ledge a few times. The view isn't always the same.
3. [Queers in Love at the End of the World](https://w.itch.io/end-of-the-world) - what will you do with the short time you have left?
4. [the uncle who works for nintendo](https://ztul.itch.io/the-uncle-who-works-for-nintendo) – a horror game; see trigger warning link on home screen.
5. [Conquering Cathy](http://philome.la/mtyrhetoric/conquering-cathy/play) - "A trial of fortitude & vitality at the University of Pittsburgh"
6. [Remnants](https://philome.la/lissamay/remnants-by-kelly-sung/play/index.html) – Your mother is crying next to your bed. Why can't you touch her hand?

I've recorded a roughly [10-minute screencast intro to Twine](https://pitt.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=44615ce9-c3cf-4834-b479-ab920021d354) and why I think it's useful now: in a nutshell, it allows you to apply your knowledge of html and css, and the affordances of sound and/or image, in a shared context that's also pretty fun. And many of you did say you wanted to build games!

If this sounds intriguing, I encourage you to look at the <a href="../resources#twine--interactive-narrative">relevant section of our course resources page</a> for links to the Twine and Harlowe wikis (your basic starting point) and some good video tutorials (listed as a "slightly more advanced intro").
<!--
* Screencast: introduce the genre by showing the opening sequences of some (polished/published) games
  - When you first download the Twine app, it may tell you the file "can't be opened because it's from an unknown developer." Not to worry: just right-click the executable, and choose Open from the context menu. Instead of rejecting the program outright, it'll just give you warning but still let you Open Anyway.
  * Show how you can import an existing game and see how it works
  * Walk through the basic features, show how easy it is to do basics
  * Show the Harlowe wiki and the cookbook
  * Link to the Harlowe wiki and the cookbok
  * Link to some additional student examples
-->
</div>


## Generative writing
Now that you have a sense of what's possible, in general, it's time for you to write your way into a sense of what's drawing you, in particular. *(This exercise adapted from Sondra Perl's [Guidelines for Composing](http://bit.ly/perlfeltsense))*  <!-- Record this in Audacity?? -->

<div class="alert alert-info">

<figure>
    <figcaption>For an audio version of the text-based writing prompts that follow, use this media player:</figcaption>
    <audio
        controls
        src="../assets/sound/ben-reads-perl-guidelines--final-unit.mp3">
            Your browser does not support the
            <code>audio</code> element.
    </audio>
</figure>

</div>

Take a breath. Close your eyes. Put down your pen, or take your hands off your keyboard. Find a way to be present to yourself, wherever you are, and know that **whatever you write for next set of questions will not be collected:** it's for you alone.

1. Start by making a list: What's on my mind? what have I been meaning to do lately? When you feel yourself answering, begin to write.

2. Set that list aside – it'll wait for you until you've finished here – and ask yourself again: What skills have I been building in this class? What do I feel I've leveled up on, or that I'm on the verge of leveling up on? What am I on the edge of accomplishing? As before, just make a list, like an inventory: don't delve too much into any one item.

3. Now ask yourself: Is there anything I've been trying to do in this class, but haven't yet done? Any aspirational goals I meant to achieve, but just ran out of time for? Did any of the ideas above sound both fun and achievable, a way to make these last couple of weeks more celebratory than stressful? Again, take a quick survey; you'll have time later to expand.

4. Take one more moment to consider: Is there anything I'm forgetting, that could go on this list? If you came to this exercise with a project already in mind, make sure to add that to your list.

Take a moment now to read back over your lists. Is there something that stands out, that says, _me, pick me_? Choose one thing to work with, at least for today, and mark it in some way. Then copy it into a clean page.

With that chosen subject, write again:

5. What terms or images come to mind when you think of this subject? ... Think about categories of words: actions vs things. Descriptors (adjectives).
6. Is there anything you're forgetting to add to your list? A line from a song? A color?
7. Who else might be interested in this? Who, that is, could be your audience?

See if you can summon up the whole of this idea, like it's right here in the room with you. Where does it live? Is it above you? Inside you? In the palm of your hand? Just sit with your idea for a moment, feeling where you connect to it.

## And now, plan.
Your homework for the weekend is to post a proposal / plan for your consolidation unit.

**Take 10-15 minutes now to get started on that process**, using whatever medium feels appropriate to your project: do you want to sketch a drawing on paper? Record yourself talking, either [on a phone](https://thewirecutter.com/reviews/the-best-voice-recorder/#the-best-smartphone-apps-for-occasional-recording) or in Audacity? Type it out? Go with what makes sense.

If you can, work your way toward developing a task list for your project: What are the parts of the project? What assets will you need to find? What do you already know how to do, and what will you need to learn? Would some tasks be easier to outsource or split with a partner, and if so, who might you ask to partner with you?

I'll be in the usual Zoom during our scheduled class time, so feel free to meet me there – or to post a new issue to the Issue Queue.

EXT: If you have time now, you can get started on implementing your plan! We'll have mostly studio time for the next three classes – and, if possible, to gather some shared baseline goals that work for all the projects.


# Homework for next time

* Make a new<span class="ftnref">1</span> repository (GH, Box, or Drive) containing:
  - a brief overview of your project goals
  - a task list for your project
  - proposed roles for your team members, if you have a team of more than one
* Post your project proposal, with a link to the repository, on the [Issue Queue]({{site.github.issues_url}}).
* Decide (together, if working on a team) what would constitute a minimum deliverable project, and what series of stretch goals you'll try for beyond that minimum. **Push these updated goals to your repo.**


<span class="footnote-block"><sup>1</sup> If you're updating an existing project, do this in a new branch of the old repository, instead.</span>
